Chocolate Chip Cookie

Ingredients:
1 cup salted butter softened
1 cup white (granulated) sugar
1 cup light brown sugar packed
2 tsp pure vanilla extract
2 large eggs
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tsp baking soda
½ tsp baking powder
1 tsp sea salt
2 cups chocolate chips (or chunks, or chopped chocolate)
US Customary - Metric

Instructions:
1-Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a baking pan with parchment paper and set aside.
2-In a separate bowl mix flour, baking soda, salt, baking powder. Set aside.
3-Cream together butter and sugars until combined.
4-Beat in eggs and vanilla until fluffy.
5-Mix in the dry ingredients until combined.
6-Add 12 oz package of chocolate chips and mix well.
7-Roll 2-3 TBS (depending on how large you like your cookies) of dough at a time into balls and place them evenly spaced on your prepared cookie sheets. (alternately, use a small cookie scoop to make your cookies).
8-Bake in preheated oven for approximately 8-10 minutes. Take them out when they are just BARELY starting to turn brown.
9-Let them sit on the baking pan for 2 minutes before removing to cooling rack. Enjoy!

Oven Fried Chicken

Ingredients:
12 chicken thighs
3 eggs
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup Italian seasoned bread crumbs
salt and pepper to taste
1 teaspoon paprika
½ cup vegetable oil

Instructions:
1-Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
2-Place flour in a shallow plate or bowl and season with salt and pepper to taste. Put the bread crumbs in another shallow plate or bowl and beat the eggs in another bowl.
3-Dredge the chicken piece by piece in the flour, then the egg, then the bread crumbs, until all pieces are coated. Pour the oil into a 9x13 inch baking dish. Add the chicken to the dish and sprinkle with paprika to taste. Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, then turn pieces over and bake for another 30 minutes. Remove from oven and drain on paper towels. Enjoy!

Chicken burger

Ingredients:
1 chicken breast
1 tsp chipotle paste
1 lime, juiced
1-2 slices cheese
1 brioche bun, split
½ avocado
2 cherry tomatoes, chopped
3-4 pickled jalapeño slices, chopped
½ small garlic clove, finely grated

Instructions:
1-Put the chicken breast between two pieces of cling film and bash with a rolling pin or pan to about 1cm thick. Mix the chipotle paste with half the lime juice and spread over the chicken.
2-Heat a griddle pan over a high heat. Once hot, cook the chicken for 3 mins each side until cooked through, adding the cheese for the final 2 mins of cooking. Add the bun, cut-side down, to the griddle pan to toast lightly. Season the chicken.
3-Meanwhile, mash the avocado with the remaining lime juice. Stir in the cherry tomatoes, jalapeño and garlic, and season with a little salt. Spread over the base of the bun, then add the chicken followed by the top of the bun. Enjoy!

Rice noodles

Ingredients:
250g medium rice noodles
85g sundried tomatoes plus 2 tbsp of their oil
3 garlic cloves
25g parmesan (or vegetarian alternative), shaved or grated
large handful basil leaves, torn

Instructions:
1-Prepare the noodles according to pack instructions, then drain. Heat the oil, then fry the tomatoes and garlic for 3 mins. Toss the noodles and most of the cheese and basil into the pan, season, then scatter over the remaining cheese and basil. Enjoy!

Lemon chicken noodles

Ingredients:
1 tbsp sunflower oil
2 skinless chicken breasts, cut into strips
zest and juice 1 lemon
1 tbsp caster sugar
2 tbsp grated fresh root ginger
2 tsp cornflour
125g pack or 2 sheets medium dried egg noodles
200g frozen peas and bean mix
4 spring onions, sliced
1 tbsp roasted cashews

Instructions:
1-Heat the oil in a non-stick pan, then fry the chicken for 5 mins until almost cooked. Tip onto a plate. Pour 250ml water into the pan with the lemon zest and juice, sugar and ginger. In a bowl, mix the cornflour with a little water until smooth, then whisk into the pan. Bring to the boil, stirring, then add the chicken to the sauce. Reduce the heat. Bubble for a few mins until chicken is cooked and the sauce thickened.
2-Meanwhile, cook the noodles and veg together in boiling water for 4 mins, then drain. Toss together the chicken, noodles, veg and spring onions; serve scattered with nuts. Enjoy!

Tortilla pizza

Ingredients:
4 tbsp passata
1 garlic clove, crushed
½ tbsp olive oil
½ tsp dried herbs (mixed herbs, basil or oregano work well)
2 plain tortillas
50g grated mozzarella
6-8 slices pepperoni
6-8 pickled jalapeño slices

Instructions:
1-Heat the oven to 220C/200C fan/gas 7. Mix the passata, garlic, olive oil, herbs and season well. Put the tortillas onto one large baking sheet, or two smaller ones. Spread over the tomato sauce leaving a 1cm border around the edges. Scatter with the mozzarella, add the pepperoni and jalapeños. Bake for 6-8 minutes until the edges of the tortillas are crisp and golden, and the cheese has melted and is bubbling. Enjoy!
Curry

Ingredients:
1 tbsp sunflower oil
1 red onion, thinly sliced
1 garlic clove
2 tsp ready-prepared ginger from a jar
½-1tsp ready chopped chillies, from a jar
200g can chopped tomatoes
200g raw peeled prawns or chopped skinless boneless chicken
2 tsp gujarati masala, or garam masala
3 tbsp low fat yogurt
handful coriander leaves, roughly chopped or torn

Instructions:
1-Heat the oil in a pan, add onion and fry until they colour. Crush the garlic into the pan, add ginger and chilli; cook briefly. Add tomatoes and a quarter of a can of water and bring to the boil. Simmer for 2 mins, add prawns or chicken and gujarati masala, cover and cook for 2-3 mins for prawns and 5-6 mins for chicken.
2-Reduce the heat to a simmer, then stir in the yogurt, a tablespoonful at time. Sprinkle with coriander and serve with warm garlic and coriander naans and a crisp salad of cucumber, shredded lettuce, sliced red onion and wedges of lemon. Enjoy!


Pancake 

Ingredients:
1 large egg
40g plain flour
½ tsp baking powder
45ml milk (dairy, nut or oat based)
1 tsp butter
½ tbsp oil
maple syrup or honey and berries, to serve (optional)

Instructions:
1-Separate the egg, putting the white and yolk in seperate bowls. Mix the egg yolk with the flour, baking powder and milk to make a smooth paste.
2-Beat the egg white and a pinch of salt with an electric whisk (or by hand) until fluffy and holding its shape. Gently fold the egg white into the yolk mixture. Be extra careful not to knock any of the air out.
3-Heat the butter and oil in a non-stick frying pan. Dollop a third of the mixture into the pan and cook on each side for 1-2 mins or until golden brown. Repeat with the remaining mixture to make three pancakes. Drizzle over some maple syrup or honey and serve with berries, if you like. Enjoy!

Waffle

Ingredients:
240ml buttermilk
60g unsalted butter, melted
½ tsp vanilla extract
1 large egg
240g plain flour
½ tsp salt
1 tbsp caster sugar
½ tsp baking powder
¼ tsp bicarbonate of soda
oil, for greasing
berries, Greek yogurt and a drizzle of honey, streaky bacon and maple syrup, ice cream and chocolate sauce, peanut butter and banana

Instructions:
1-Whisk the buttermilk, melted butter and vanilla together in a large bowl. Separate the egg and whisk the yolk into the buttermilk mixture. Whisk the egg white in a clean bowl until it forms stiff peaks – this will keep your waffles light and fluffy.
2-Weigh all the other dry ingredients into a bowl. Whisk in the wet ingredients to create a smooth batter then carefully but decisively fold through the egg white – don’t worry if you are left with a few small lumps. Cover with cling film and leave the batter to sit for 30 mins, if you have time.
3-Lightly oil then heat your waffle maker (or see the tip below). Heat the oven to low, so you can keep each waffle warm while the next one cooks. Pour enough batter for one waffle (about a quarter) into the waffle maker, close the lid and cook until the waffle is golden brown on both sides and will come away from the maker easily, about 2 mins. Repeat with the remaining batter, then top with whatever you fancy. Enjoy!

Burrito

Ingredients:
1 tsp chipotle paste
1 egg
1 tsp rapeseed oil
50g kale
7 cherry tomatoes, halved
½ small avocado, sliced
1 wholemeal tortilla wrap, warmed

Instructions:
1-Whisk the chipotle paste with the egg and some seasoning in a jug. Heat the oil in a large frying pan, add the kale and tomatoes.
2-Cook until the kale is wilted and the tomatoes have softened, then push everything to the side of the pan. Pour the beaten egg into the cleared half of the pan and scramble. Layer everything into the centre of your wrap, topping with the avocado, then wrap up and eat immediately. Enjoy!

Cinnamon rolls

Ingredients:
300g self-raising flour
2 tbsp caster sugar
1 tsp ground cinnamon
100g butter, melted, plus extra for greasing
2 egg yolks
200ml milk, plus extra for glazing
1 tsp ground cinnamon
55g light brown soft sugar
2 tbsp caster sugar
1 tbsp butter, melted
60g icing sugar
1 tbsp cream cheese, softened
½ tbsp butter, softened
½ tsp vanilla essence

Instructions:
1-Heat oven to 180C/fan 160C/gas 4. Grease a 20cm loose-bottomed cake tin and line the bottom with baking parchment. Mix the flour, caster sugar and cinnamon together with a pinch of salt in a bowl. Whisk the butter, egg yolks and milk together and combine with the dry ingredients to make a soft dough. Turn out onto a floured surface and roll out to a rectangle, about 30 x 25cm.
2-Mix the filling ingredients together. Spread evenly over the dough then roll it up lengthways, like a Swiss roll, to form a log. Using a sharp knife, cut the dough into 8 even-sized slices and pack into the prepared tin. Brush gently with extra milk and bake for 30-35 mins or until golden brown. Remove from the oven and cool for 5 mins before removing from the tin.
3-Sift the icing sugar into a large bowl and make a well in the centre. Place the cream cheese and butter in the centre, pour over 2 tbsp boiling water, and stir to mix. Add a little more water until you have a drizzly consistency. Stir in the vanilla essence, then drizzle the icing over the rolls. Serve warm or cold. Enjoy!

Chocolate cake

Ingredients:
100ml sunflower oil, plus extra for pan
175g caster sugar
140g plain flour
3 tbsp cocoa
3 tsp baking powder
2 large eggs
1 tsp vanilla essence
chocolate sprinkles, to serve
100g dark chocolate, broken into pieces
5 tbsp double cream

Instructions:
1-Grease a 22cm silicone microwaveable cake pan with a little oil and place a circle of baking parchment in the bottom.
2-Mix sugar, flour, cocoa and baking powder in a bowl. In a jug, whisk the oil, eggs, vanilla and 100ml hot water until combined.
3-Add liquid ingredients to the dry ingredients and mix thoroughly until you have a lump-free batter. Pour mixture into the cake pan and gently tap to pop any air bubbles. Cover with cling film.
4-Microwave on Full power (800 watts) for 7 mins. Remove and check if the cake is cooked by poking a skewer into the middle: if it comes out clean it is ready. Allow cake to stand for 5 mins, then remove cling film and turn out onto a cooling rack.
5-For the ganache, melt the chocolate on Half power (600 watts) for approximately 2 mins, stirring every 30 secs until melted. Add the cream and mix thoroughly until smooth and glossy.
6-Once the cake is cool, spread over the ganache and scatter with the sprinkles. The cake will keep for up to 3 days in an airtight container. Enjoy!
